
chapter 2: create a react app

7. setup ide
a. what is ide?
integrated development enviroment. software suite consolidates basic tools required for software development. find problems and testing. desined to improve developer efficieny

b. need fo ide.
streamlines development. increases productivity. simplifies complex tasks. offers a unified workspace. ide reatures; code autocmplete, syntax highlight, version contro, error checking

c. installation and setup
i. install lates node
ii. install vs code 
iii. some vscode extentions and settings like 
extentions;
live server/ livew preview, 
prittier, 
line wrap

setting i. formate on save enable
settings ii. enable line wrap
settins iii. tab size 2


8. create a react app
two way to create react app

first way is offical tool is CRA create react app
use npm start for cra

second way with vite
vite is a modern tool to create react project. vite produces quick and small bundle size. vite use npm run dev to launch dev server. 


for create project with second way

open terminal
npm create vite@latest or with latest version npm create vite@1.4.1

npm create vite@latest
Need to install the following packages:
  create-vite@5.1.0
Ok to proceed? (y) y
√ Project name: ... reapp
√ Select a framework: » React
√ Select a variant: » JavaScript

Done. Now run:

  cd reapp	: move to the root project dir
  npm install	: inall the dependencies
  npm run dev	: start project








9. project structure
a. node_moduels/ has all the installed node packages
b. public/ directory contains static files that dont chagne like favicone icon.
c. src/ directory is main folder for the react code. 
	(src subforders are suggested but not compolsary 
	i. components isreusable parts of the ui, like buttons or headers.
	ii. assests: images, fonts, and other staic files
	iii. styles: css or stylesheets
d. packages.json containes information about the current project like name, version, dependencies on other reat packages.
e. vite.config.js contains vite config.


.eslintrc.cjs: tells the wrong written code and suggested code give
.gitignore. it spacify to not push
index.html: first file have html code rearly change elements file.

on the npm install, create two things
node_moduels and package-lock.json
package-lock.json: it tells that what finally used on the update the modules or library and keep the the update current modules and libararies


in packages.json
scripts: conname collection with value that execute the particular value of particular command hit
dependencies: on what the project depend ( default dependencies react, react-dom
devDependencies: the dependencies that helps while writing the code but not need to include on the shifting the project

 





















